Copyright ©1996, 1997, 1998 The Regents of the University of
California (Regents). All Rights Reserved. 

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for educational, research, and not-for-profit purposes,
without fee and without a signed licensing agreement, is hereby
granted, provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and
the following two paragraphs appear in all copies, modifications, and
distributions. 

Contact The Office of Technology Licensing, UC Berkeley, 2150 Shattuck
Avenue, Suite 510, Berkeley, CA 94720-1620, (510) 643-7201, for
commercial licensing opportunities. 

IN NO EVENT SHALL REGENTS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOST PROFITS,
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
REGENTS HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 
  
REGENTS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE SOFTWARE AND ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATION, IF
ANY, PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED "AS IS". REGENTS HAS NO OBLIGATION
TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS. 

# INSTALL $Id: INSTALL 1.7 Wed, 17 Jun 1998 14:50:41 -0700 marcoz $

SHIFT INSTALLATION

These are the instructions for installing the SHIFT source
distribution on your system.

The distribution comes in a tar.gz package which you should have
unpacked in the current directory (which you probably have since you
are reading this.)

To install shift in a simple way, follow the sequence of commands
listed hereafter.  Most likely you will need write permissions to
'/usr/local/bin' and '/usr/local/lib' and other "standard"
locations. in this case.  If you don't, you will need to read on the
rest of the instructions.

The sequence of commands is:

	your-prompt> ./configure
	# various stuff

	your-prompt> gmake # or make
	# more stuff

	your-prompt> gmake install # or make install

will usually make (and install) the programs and the libraries.

However, your local setup might require some more tuning of the
installation procedure.  See section (2) of this document for details
on the installation procedure.


1. Prerequisites

1.1 Make and GNU Make

If you want to run the tty only debugger there are no particular
prerequisites apart from GNU 'Make'.  Standard 'make' should also work
but it might break down somewhere along the lines.  If this happens
try to comment out the '.PHONY' lines in the 'Makefile.in' various
directories.

1.2 Other Libraries

If you want to run the Tk based graphic environment, you will need the
following packages installed:

	1 - Tcl			version 7.5
	2 - Tk			version 4.1
	3 - [incr tcl] (also known as Itcl)	version 2.1
	4 - [incr tk]  (also known as Itk)	version 2.1
	5 - BLT					version 2.1

The 'configure' script will try to detect these packages and will
produce 'Makefile's which will not compile the Graphic Environment is
any of them is missing.

Please refer to, e.g.,
	
	http://www.sunlabs.com:80/research/tcl
	http://www.tcltk.com

for information about how to get and install these packages.


2. Running 'configure'

The 'configure' script that comes with the distribution will generally
build the system without problems provided that you have write
permissions to '/usr/local'.  If you cannot write in '/usr/local'  you
can specify the standard 'configure' argument '--prefix'.

	your-prompt> ./configure --prefix=~/iamistallingshifthere

which will set (internally) the variable 'prefix' (cf. the 'Autoconf'
and 'Configure' manual and info pages for more details on the standard
command line options.)

The 'configure' script assumes that you have the following directory
structure set up

	${prefix}/bin
	${prefix}/lib
	${prefix}/include
	${prefix}/man

2.1 Special Command Line Options

The command

	your-prompt> ./configure --help

will print out all the possible command line options for the
configuration script.  The special SHIFT only command line options are
the following:

  --enable-graphic-env    build the Graphic Environment (default)
  --disable-graphic-env   do not build the Graphic Environment
  --with-libtcl-loc       location of libtcl  (default = EPREFIX/lib)
  --with-libtk-loc        location of libtk   (default = libtcl-loc)
  --with-incltcl-loc      location of tcl include  (default = PREFIX/include)
  --with-incltk-loc       location of tk include   (default = incltcl-loc)
  --with-libitcl-loc      location of libitcl (default = libtcl-loc)
  --with-libitk-loc       location of libitk  (default = libitcl-loc)
  --with-inclitcl-loc     location of itcl include  (default = PREFIX/include)
  --with-inclitk-loc      location of itk include   (default = inclitcl-loc)
  --with-libBLT-loc       location of libBLT  (default = libitk-loc)
  --with-inclBLT-loc      location of BLT include  (default = inclitk-loc)
  --with-itkwidgets-loc	  location of Itk Widgets
					 (default = libitk-loc/iwidgets2.1.0)
  

where PREFIX is either '/usr/local' (the default) or the value
specified in the '--prefix' command line option, and EPREFIX is
usually PREFIX or the value specified in '--exec-prefix' (cf. the
'Autoconf' or 'Configure' manuals.)

Each '--with-*' command line option can be used to specify the special
location of the various libraries.  E.g.

	your-prompt> ./configure --prefix=/zut \
	                         --with-libtcl-loc=/zot/TCLSTUFF/lib

will produce makefiles which contain special flags for the C compiler
and the loader to look for the Tcl library in '/zot/TCLSTUFF/lib'
(note also that many of the values default to some other one.)


2.2 BLT problems.

BLT may not compile properly on systems which do not have 'strerror'
in the C library.  Nevertheless, SHIFT may compile on these systems.
This is a problem with the BLT distribution and you can avoid it by
specifying the configure command line option

	--enable-BLT-testing=no

(yes being the default.)  This will skip the BLT testing in the
absence of 'strerror'.


3. Bugs in the Configuration and Installation Process.

The configuration process may still contain bugs.  If you find
them, please send an email to

	marcoxa@fiat.its.berkeley.edu

The Shift Team.
