Copyright ©1996, 1997, 1998 The Regents of the University of
California (Regents). All Rights Reserved. 

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for educational, research, and not-for-profit purposes,
without fee and without a signed licensing agreement, is hereby
granted, provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and
the following two paragraphs appear in all copies, modifications, and
distributions. 

Contact The Office of Technology Licensing, UC Berkeley, 2150 Shattuck
Avenue, Suite 510, Berkeley, CA 94720-1620, (510) 643-7201, for
commercial licensing opportunities. 

IN NO EVENT SHALL REGENTS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOST PROFITS,
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
REGENTS HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 
  
REGENTS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE SOFTWARE AND ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATION, IF
ANY, PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED "AS IS". REGENTS HAS NO OBLIGATION
TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS. 

# README $Id: README 1.11 Wed, 17 Jun 1998 14:50:41 -0700 marcoz $

Welcome to the SHIFT language and environment distribution.

The SHIFT simulation language allows you to model and run complex
Hybrid Systems.

The current distribution contains the following items:

a. The 'shic' compiler which takes a specification of a Hybrid System
   written in SHIFT and produces a C file which can be compiled and
   linked with other C functions.

b. A command line (tty only) debugger that allows you to inspect the
   a SHIFT program's entities at run time.

c. A Tcl/Tk based graphic environment that makes it easier to run and
   visualize simulations and to debug SHIFT programs by graphically
   inspecting various entities at run-time.

d. Accessory libraries and include files.

e. Documentation

Please refer to the INSTALL file for instructions on how to
compile and/or install the system.

Please refer to the RELEASE-NOTES file for news regarding new and
obsolete features of the system.


CONTENTS.

The current distribution is organized under many directories.  Of
particular interest are the directories 'examples' (containing some
small examples of working SHIFT programs) which will give you a better
idea of the SHIFT capabilities.


HOW TO GET SHIFT:

Surf to http://www.path.berkeley.edu/SHIFT and follow the
instructions.

	or
  
FTP to

	porsche.path.berkeley.edu:pub/PATH/SHIFT

The distribution comes in file called (for the time being)

	SHIFTsrc-X.X.tar.gz.

You need the 'gzip' package from GNU (which includes 'gunzip' and
'zcat') to unpack the commpressed tar file.

You can then inspect the distribution by running

	your-prompt> zcat SHIFTsrc.tar.gz | tar tf -

and you can unpack the compressed tar file in the current directory by running

	your-prompt> zcat SHIFTsrc.tar.gz | tar xvf -

(Of course if your 'zcat' does not work, you can always uncompress the
tar file with 'gunzip' or gzip -d' and then launch the 'tar' command.)

Finally, read the instructions in the INSTALL and RUNNING files.

Enjoy

The SHIFT Team 19970519
