Copyright ©1996, 1997, 1998 The Regents of the University of
California (Regents). All Rights Reserved. 

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for educational, research, and not-for-profit purposes,
without fee and without a signed licensing agreement, is hereby
granted, provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and
the following two paragraphs appear in all copies, modifications, and
distributions. 

Contact The Office of Technology Licensing, UC Berkeley, 2150 Shattuck
Avenue, Suite 510, Berkeley, CA 94720-1620, (510) 643-7201, for
commercial licensing opportunities. 

IN NO EVENT SHALL REGENTS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOST PROFITS,
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
REGENTS HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 
  
REGENTS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE SOFTWARE AND ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATION, IF
ANY, PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS PROVIDED "AS IS". REGENTS HAS NO OBLIGATION
TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS. 

# RUNNING $Id: RUNNING 1.3 Wed, 17 Jun 1998 14:50:41 -0700 marcoz $

QUICK INSTRUCTIONS FOR RUNNING SHIFT

The building process will install the compile 'shic' in the proper
locations and leave a copy in the source directory.

There are two ways of running the SHIFT compiler.

1 - The file 'shift.mk' is a template Makefile which will give you an idea
    about how to compile and run a SHIFT program.  A SHIFT file has the
    extension '.hs'.  The output of 'shic' is a C file which must be
    linked with a few libraries.  If you are using the template file you
    will produce executables with the '.sim' exension. These files are the
    runnable simulations.

2 - the 'cshift' command which has the following usage.

    Usage: cshift <filename>.hs [options] [[-ff|--foreign-files] <files>
       <options> are:
       [-h|--help]           prints this message
       [-v|--version]        prints the version number
       [--config]            prints the current configuration of script
       -I<include dir>        (repeatable)
       -L<library dir>        (repeatable)
       -l<library name>       (repeatable)
       -CPP=<C preprocessor command>
       -CC=<C compiler command>
       -SC=<SHIFT compiler command>
       C preprocessor and C compiler options

As an example, suppose to have a file 'system.hs' which relies on some
extra C files named 'hairy.c' and 'furry.c'.  You can either modify
the 'shift.mk' makefile to reflect this dependency or you can run the
following command (assuming 'cshift' is in your path.)

	your-prompt> cshift system.hs -g -O -ff hairy.c furry.c

If 'furry.c' has already been compiled into a 'furry.o' the command

	your-prompt> cshift system.hs -g -O -ff furry.o hairy.c

will sort the same effect.

The result of this process is an executable file 'system.sim' which
will run the simulation whose model is in 'system.hs'.


Please refer to the extra documentation about running the tty debugger
and the Tk GUI interface.

The SHIFT Team
